Create local k8s deployment files (#6876)
medic/cht-core: kubernetes-archv3/README.md

# Kubernetes Deployment Files

This folder contains files to set up the CHT core App locally on Kubernetes. When run in Kubernetes, these files generate services that are needed to run the CHT core app.
The services share secrets through environment variables in the  `secrets.yml` file. Services discover each other through these variables. If you update the names of any of the resources be sure to update the same in the `secrets.yml` file lest the services will not discover each other.
Secrets in the `secrets.yml` file are base64 encoded. Be sure to encode them before adding them to the respective variable.
To encode a secret you can run a command similar to the one below.

`echo -n 'secret' | base64`

To decode a secret you can run a command similar to the one below.

`echo -n 'QWxhZGRpbjpvcGVuIHNlc2FtZQ==' | base64 --decode`

You can deploy these files in you local Kubernetes set up from docker desktop on MACOS or using a Kubernetes engine like microk8s or k3s on Linux.

## Steps to run this set up in a local Kubernetes set up. 

> 1. Install a local Kubernetes engine like the one in  Docker desktop for MacOs or k3s for Linux steps shown below. 

Reviewer: Following this step is confusing to me. The `k3s` install worked (pipe to `sudo sh -` ), but then I don't know which command to run next.  Do I also install `k3d`? The subsequent call to `k3d cluster` failed as I hadn't installed it. I suggest we remove commands that are not used.  I finally figured I can just skip them.

```bash
# Install k3s 
curl -sfL https://get.k3s.io | sudo sh -

# You can also use k3d, which is dockerized k3s (works everywhere)
https://github.com/rancher/k3d

# k3d setup:
k3d cluster create -p "80:30080@server[0]" -p "443:30081@server[0]" cht-trial

# Export the default k8s kubeconfig into your shell. This is a very important step as it enables you to be able to authenticate through the cluster and be able to run commands. 

export KUBECONFIG=/etc/rancher/k3s/k3s.yaml

#check to make sure everything is running by running a sample command. 
kubectl get nodes --all-namespaces

```

2. Create a namespace under which you will run your resources. Namespaces are logical units that you can use to group similar resources. This makes resource discovery easier for both the services themselves and the Kubernetes administrators.

`kubectl create namespace cht`

3. Deploy the resources using the deployment files. Be sure provide to correct path to the directory that contains your deployment files. In this repo these files are located in the `kubernetes-archv3` directory.

`kubectl apply -n cht -f path/to/k8s-arcv3/directory`

>  At first launch, the services will take some time to pull the necessary containers and to create the required volumes to run the cht instance. You will need to be a little patient till this is done. You can monitor the progress of the install through k8s commands some of which are listed below. 
> 
>  ```bash
>  # Check to see if the persistent volume claims have been created. These are used by the CouchDB container to store data
>  
>  kubectl -n cht get pvc
> 
>  # check to see pod status. This will also output the pod identifiers, which look like "dev-v3-couchdb-85cdbd6b8f-cmm5q" and are used in other commands at the pod level.
>   
>   kubectl -n cht get pods
> 
>   # Inspect a specific pod to see the status 
>   kubectl -n cht describe pod --selector cht.service=dev-v3-medic-couchdb
> 
>   # Read logs from a pod
>   kubectl -n cht logs --selector cht.service=dev-v3-couchdb
>   kubectl -n cht logs --selector cht.service=dev-v3-medic-api
>   kubectl -n cht logs --selector cht.service=dev-v3-nginx
>   *You can find the selector label used inside the deployment.yaml under spec.selector.matchLabels*
> 
> 
>   # Enter the shell of one of the pods and run a bash command
> 
>   kubectl -n cht exec -it deploy/dev-v3-horticulturalist -- /bin/bash
>   *You can find the deploy name inside the deployment.yaml under metadata.name*
>     
>   bash-5.0# printenv
> 
>  ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   At first launch, the services will take some time to pull the necessary containers and to create the required volumes to run the CHT instance. Be patient untill this is done. Monitoring the progress of the install can be done through k8s commands. 
   
   This call checks to see if the persistent volume claims have been created. These are used by the CouchDB container to store data:
   
   ```bash
   kubectl -n cht get pvc
   ```

   `get pods`  checks to see pod status. It will also output the pod identifiers, which look like "dev-v3-couchdb-85cdbd6b8f-cmm5q" and are used in other commands at the pod level:

   ```bash
   kubectl -n cht get pods
   ```

  `describe pod` sees the status a specific pod:
   ```bash
   kubectl -n cht describe pod --selector cht.service=dev-v3-medic-couchdb
   ```

   `cht logs` reads logs from a pod (selector labels used here can be found inside the `deployment.yaml` under `spec.selector.matchLabels`):
   ```bash
   kubectl -n cht logs --selector cht.service=dev-v3-couchdb
   kubectl -n cht logs --selector cht.service=dev-v3-medic-api
   kubectl -n cht logs --selector cht.service=dev-v3-nginx
   ```

   Enter the shell of one of the pods and run a bash command (find the deploy name inside the `deployment.yaml` under `metadata.name`):

   ```bash
   kubectl -n cht exec -it deploy/dev-v3-horticulturalist -- /bin/bash
   printenv
   ```
```

> 4. Once the services have been created you can access the api output on your local machine by going to https://localhost 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Once the services have been created you can access the API output on your local machine by going to [https://localhost](https://localhost) 
```
